README.md, before:

## Amazon Clone

### What is the AmazonClone?

The AmazonClone is an E-Commerce website that caters to two users:
1. Sellers: Users can open up their own e-commerce page and add products to their store. Buyers can then purchase the seller's products. Sellers will also have a page to display all their products and subpages for each product with reviews and pictures.
2. Buyers: Users can purchase any of the products that sellers are willing to sell at AmazonClone. Users should be able to see purchase history. User purchases will be emulated with a shopping cart and checkout phase. Users should be able to search through the seller’s store and products (time permitting).

### Details:

Using a combination of database, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat, jQuery and Bootstrap AmazonClone will have the following pages:
- a landing page for unsigned in users for suggested purchases
- a landing page for signed in users with recent purchases
- a sign-in page for returning users
- a register page for new users
- users can create a store
- users can add new products
- store pages to display products
- product page with images and reviews
- fake purchases can be made using a shopping cart and simulated checkout
- users can see past purchases
- search bar to search through products or store pages (hopefully)
- emails should be sent for change password, change email, send new password, and newly registered users all using JWTs for security

### Expected Outcome

The end goal should be somewhat representative of the functionality that Amazon as an e-commerce website should have. The authentication, email, purchase pipeline, and item/store creation should be built to best match the functionality of an e-commerce website. Since the project is large in scope I hope to get the basic functionality of the site up and add in the purchasing functionality next. The additional details will be integrated over the remainder of the semester.

### Conclusion

I hope to use this project to develop a better understanding of complex web applications but no intention of being in production. The AmazonClone will contain some UI elements that are strictly decoration but the main features detailed above will be attempted or documented as incomplete. Alongside the development of the application, I will make all the code displayed on GitHub publicly and document the status of the application in a “readme” file.

## Status

### TODO:

[ ] Insert, Init, Get products
[ ] Insert, Init, Get categories
[ ] Make products header
[ ] Handle file uploads
[ ] Have products populate home page
[ ] Have personal page should modules of products

[ ] Authentication
[ ] Registration
[ ] Email
[ ] Create Store
[ ] Create Product
[ ] Display Store
[ ] Display Product
[ ] Create Review
[ ] Display Review
[ ] Shopping Cart
[ ] Simulated Checkout

Commit message:

install instructions added, file utility initialization function added

README.md, after:

## Amazon Clone

### What is the AmazonClone?

The AmazonClone is an E-Commerce website that caters to two users:
1. Sellers: Users can open up their own e-commerce page and add products to their store. Buyers can then purchase the seller's products. Sellers will also have a page to display all their products and subpages for each product with reviews and pictures.
2. Buyers: Users can purchase any of the products that sellers are willing to sell at AmazonClone. Users should be able to see purchase history. User purchases will be emulated with a shopping cart and checkout phase. Users should be able to search through the seller’s store and products (time permitting).

### Install Instructions:
- Build the database run the python script init_db_script.py using Python 2.
	- This will create the database, tables, insert dummy data, and load stored procedures.
- Run the store.utility.FileUtility.java in the console to initialize file uploads.
- Now you are ready to run the web app on TomCat 7. 

NOTE: the initialization process will make most of the application empty and therefore requires
creating stores, products and file uploads to make the pages populate with products.

### Details:

Using a combination of database, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat, jQuery and Bootstrap AmazonClone will have the following pages:
- a landing page for unsigned in users for suggested purchases
- a landing page for signed in users with recent purchases
- a sign-in page for returning users
- a register page for new users
- users can create a store
- users can add new products
- store pages to display products
- product page with images and reviews
- fake purchases can be made using a shopping cart and simulated checkout
- users can see past purchases
- search bar to search through products or store pages (hopefully)
- emails should be sent for change password, change email, send new password, and newly registered users all using JWTs for security

### Expected Outcome

The end goal should be somewhat representative of the functionality that Amazon as an e-commerce website should have. The authentication, email, purchase pipeline, and item/store creation should be built to best match the functionality of an e-commerce website. Since the project is large in scope I hope to get the basic functionality of the site up and add in the purchasing functionality next. The additional details will be integrated over the remainder of the semester.

### Conclusion

I hope to use this project to develop a better understanding of complex web applications but no intention of being in production. The AmazonClone will contain some UI elements that are strictly decoration but the main features detailed above will be attempted or documented as incomplete. Alongside the development of the application, I will make all the code displayed on GitHub publicly and document the status of the application in a “readme” file.

## Status

### TODO:

[x] Insert, Init, Get products
[x] Insert, Init, Get categories
[x] Make products header
[x] Handle file uploads
[x] Have products populate home page
[x] Have personal page should modules of products

[x] Authentication
[x] Registration
[x] Email
[x] Create Store
[x] Create Product
[ ] Display Store
[x] Display Product
[ ] Create Review
[ ] Display Review
[ ] Shopping Cart
[ ] Simulated Checkout
